scott/03-Configure-Host-Networking.md, before:

#**Lab 3: Configure Host Networking**

##**3.1 Verify Interfaces**

The server has a single network card. Configure both of the interface files at one time and then restart networking.

**Explore the current network card interface setup:**

    ip a
    sudo ovs-vsctl show
    

For this lab we will need 2 interfaces. The DHCP interface was the single NIC *em1*. The interface *em1* will be associated with the *br-public* bridge. Ensure the *ifcfg-em1* and *ifcfg-br-public* files look as follows.  The *ifcfg-br-public*  file will have to be created.  The files on the host should look exactly the same as what is listed below.

    cat /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-br-ex
    cat /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-em1

Packstack does not configure the interfaces but in this lab they have already been configured for you.  In the original state, the single Ethernet interface had an IP address from the classroom DHCP server.  We needed to migrate that IP address to the *br-public* interface.

Confirm the *172.16.0.1* IP address is assigned to the bridge interface *br-public*;

    sudo ovs-vsctl show
    ip a
    
IP address should be on the *br-public* interface and the *classroom* interface should have received a new DHCP address.
          
    ip a | egrep "br-ex|em1"

output:

    2: em1: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc mq state UP qlen 1000
    152: br-ex: <BROADCAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN 
    inet 172.16.0.1/16 brd 172.16.255.255 scope global br-ex


**Lab 3 Complete!**

<!--BREAK-->

Commit message:

Added convert-to-bridge script for students to execute
Signed-off-by: Vinny Valdez <vvaldez@redhat.com>

scott/03-Configure-Host-Networking.md, after:

#**Lab 3: Configure Host Networking**

##**3.1 Verify Interfaces**

The server has a single network card. Configure both of the interface files at one time and then restart networking.

**Explore the current network card interface setup:**

    ip a
    sudo ovs-vsctl show
    

For this lab we will need 2 interfaces. The DHCP interface was the single NIC *em1*. The bridge *br-public* will be created and used as the exsternal network, though this will only be simulated as it will not actually route anywhere. Run the following script to create the bridge:

    /usr/local/bin/convert-to-bridge

Ensure the *ifcfg-br-public* file look as follows.  

    cat /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-br-ex
    DEVICE="br-ex"
    ONBOOT="yes"
    DEVICETYPE=ovs
    TYPE="OVSBridge"
    OVSBOOTPROTO="static"
    IPADDR="172.16.0.1"
    NETMASK="255.255.0.0"

Packstack does not configure the interfaces but in this lab they have already been configured for you.  In the original state, the single Ethernet interface had an IP address from the classroom DHCP server.  We needed to migrate that IP address to the *br-public* interface.

Confirm the *172.16.0.1* IP address is assigned to the bridge interface *br-public*;

    sudo ovs-vsctl show
    ip a
    
**Lab 3 Complete!**

<!--BREAK-->
